# Understanding T2D3: The Cheats to a Sustainable Growth Formula

URL: https://www.t2d3.pro/learn/t2d3-saas-marketing-playbook-cheat-codes
Tags: 2nd Base - Reach Product Market Fit

The notion of T2D3 growth is an acronym first coined by Neeraj Agrawal from Battery Ventures back in 2015. There were a couple of blog articles on it, but little else. So I’ve compiled some “cheat codes” - or best practices - that I’ve learned over the years. What's challenging is when you look at all the literature and SaaS marketing playbooks out there, there’s a lot of coverage on the earlier stages of SaaS growth (i.e., how do you get to MVP? How do you get started zero to one?). However, finding resources on what to do in the next stage (i.e., how do you turn that growth into exponential growth?) is more difficult. There's a lot of depth surrounding that topic that is difficult to capture in one book, and I'm not going to pretend that I've been able to, but I've touched on a couple of the most important. The challenge is to do a lot of things in parallel. You can get to MVP and to Product Market Fit (PMF) by finding one demand lever that really works to get extreme loyalty from your customers and them driving referrals. That's how you can get to a couple million in ARR. Maybe even sometimes to 10 million in ARR by mastering one thing, one part of the market, one beachhead, and nailing that. However, to get to 20, 30, 50, or 100 million ARR, there's no way to do that without mastering all the things in the T2D3 formula at the same time. The example above is not necessarily mathematically correct, but it gives you a sense of when you need to go beyond 5 or 10 million ARR. To reach this higher scale velocity, you need to do a lot of things in parallel: demand gen, diversification, and conversion optimization across the full funnel (not just marketing, but sales, renewals, expansion, price strategy, upsell, cross-sell, etc.). If you get bigger and bigger, the cost to service becomes very important for profitability. All of that of course while you keep churn numbers at the level that it's healthy for the market segment you're in. This is hard. It's especially hard when companies that receive series A funding are about to go on this part of the journey. With all those new resources they may do a lot of things in parallel that is not being managed correctly. It's good to do a little experimentation. You want to go fast, but you don't want to burn through all your resources by learning on the job. If you're doing your due diligence on an investment, or you're trying to pinpoint where a company is struggling, I always find this picture very helpful. It directs you towards answering the following questions: How is your go-to-market strategy (the market engine - whether it’s a sales-led model, a product marketing, or a product-led growth model) related to the ACV that you think your product can demand from the market? What is the ARPU, the revenue per unit (the unit being per customer, usually, or per user)? There are just some rules of thumb here. For example, if you have a sales-led growth model and you're investing in hiring a relatively expensive sales team, that is extremely hard to sustain unless your average deal size, your average selling price in the first year, is over $100,000. Marketing-led growth runs into the same issues. If you want to buy clicks from Google, compete for high organic search ranking positions, do inbound through sponsorships, event marketing, etc., it quickly becomes expensive. Unless you can command an ACV of, let’s say, $10K, it's extremely hard to actually fund that GTM for a longer period of time. That doesn't mean you cannot get off the ground with those strategies, but your longer-term vision has to include how you will make those economics work. Another vital part of the equation - and one of the things that are helpful for me to assess where a company is on its growth journey - is whether they have achieved Minimum Viable Product (MVP) or Product Market Fit (PMF). How do you know where you are? MVP is about having a couple of paying customers, or specifically, customers who pay with their time and who help you build your product. PMF is about multiple customers, who pay and stay and maybe even attract early adopters who start referring others. So MVP is about people voting with their feet and with their time and PMF is more about voting with economic things you can measure. You need to know if you have actually reached product-market fit before you can double down and do the investments that are required to get to T2D3 growth. You will have to understand what your Ideal Customer Profile is based on your PMF milestone before you pour a whole bunch of money into trying to win a certain market segment or investing in a certain GTM model. T2D3 is about doing all those things at the same time to drive revenue, expansion, demand, diversification, retention, and building a customer success function - and all those things are going to be costly. It's important that these efforts are only after you've reached product market fit. That's why I use the baseball diamond as a visual here. You cannot go from second base to home plate. You need to round all the bases in order. This is the cheat sheet that I use when I have a limited amount of time to get familiar with a company. These numbers are far from perfect and are really a very rough sort of categorization. But they allow a quick snapshot and answer questions like “What's your ARR?” or “How big is your team?