---
title: Here's why these debates about the definition of "strategy" are so dumb - Basic Arts
source_url: https://basicarts.org/heres-why-these-debates-about-the-definition-of-strategy-are-so-dumb/
date_published: 2024-03-19
notion_page_id: ""
migration_date: 2025-11-11
status: extracted
---
The other day, I did a post about how pointless it is to argue about
definitions of terms like “strategy”, and how it’s better instead to just say
what you mean.

I think you can guess what happened next.

The comments section, naturally, became furious debating shop over the
definitions of such terms. So I guess my point was a bit lost on some.

However the _overall_ point wasn’t lost on me, namely:

**People _really_ care about definitions.**

They are _passionate_ about them, especially apparently “strategy people”. And
to be fair, the stakes are indeed quite high. Vast amounts of confusion,
conflict, and cost are generated by people talking past each other, simply
because they have different interpretations of certain words in their heads –
“strategy” probably being chief among them.

It is a problem, no doubt.

So, what are the chances we can solve this problem here, in this newsletter?

Zero.

Of course, we can go through the motions of defining strategy, but it’s not
like the whole world is going to fall behind it. You’re still going to have
the same annoying, garbled, unproductive discussions. That, I cannot save you
from.

**But there is one thing we can do.**

We can look at the two major “schools” of strategy definition and explain how
they _interconnect_. Then, when you’re having these discussions, you’ll be
able pinpoint where the other person is coming from, and quickly find common
ground.

It’s a bit boring, a bit “wonkish”, but more useful I think than just
reiterating my own personal definition of the term.

Sound good? Then here we go.

First, let me define the two schools:

  1. The action school
  2. The value school

The first is the one you’ll hear most commonly, and it will sound something
like this:

**“A strategy is the set of unique choices you make”.**

“Choice” is a big word in this way of thinking, as are things like “policies”
or “decisions”. Anything that boils down to _the things that you are going to
do_. This, I suppose, is why it is the most popular form of definition,
because everyone more or less understands that a strategy is something you
“do” (and then bunging the word unique in there gives it an extra layer of
sophistication).

The second school, however, has a different point of focus – _value_. This is
the definition I favour, and you’ll hear it defined something like:

**“A strategy is the value you offer that people want, but cannot get
elsewhere”.**

Or, simply, “unique value”.

This one is somewhat more controversial because it tends to get mixed up with
comms terms such as “value proposition”. This, in fact, is the most common and
angry criticism I receive online – people telling me that I am “actually”
talking about a value proposition, not strategy.

To be clear, these people are wrong, but it’s an incredibly easy mistake to
make.

You see a “value proposition” is generally a tool used to describe the value
of something in _marketing comms_. In that respect it is developed _after_ the
business as a whole is developed. It is a “wrapper” used to sell something.
However unique value in the _strategy sense_ is the decision over what the
business is going to do in the first place. What it is going to produce that
is going to give it leverage in the market. So it is the _first_ decision in
the business process, not the _last_.

A very subtle, but very important distinction.

Anyway, there you have the two. On the face of it, they seem quite different,
but here’s the thing:

**They are exactly the same.**

…only they deal with two different pieces of the overall strategy process:

  * The action definition describes the “things you are going to do”.
  * The value definition describes “the idea towards which those things are directed”.

You have the “idea” (value). And you have the “execution” (actions).

Honestly this really is common sensical, but for whatever reason people really
struggle with it. You cannot have a set of “unique choices” which are totally
arbitrary. There must be some sort of unifying thought which determines what
those choices are (i.e. the value). And, of course, you cannot have some airy-
fairy expression of value without that being manifested in specific, hard,
differentiated decisions (i.e. the action).

You actually see quite a lot of shoddy strategies falling into both of these
traps:

  * You see clear practical decisions being made without any actual leverage or value-based thought behind them (e.g. “our strategy is to open 5 new branches!”)
  * And you also see a lot of value statements that are impossible to convert into specific action (e.g. “our strategy is to deliver the extraordinary!”)

Now the reason I favour the value definition in my general spiel is because it
is “higher” than the action one. The value decision comes first, the actions
second. However it should always be obvious (and maybe it isn’t…) that the
value needs to be _manifested_ in unique action.

I suppose if you want to be a _really_ annoying pedant, you could join the two
in order to have “one definition that rules them all”:

**“A strategy is the set of unique choices you make in order to deliver a
particular form of value to customers that they can’t get anywhere else”.**

Try it at a dinner party, or on a hot date.

Or failing that, simply keep it in your head, and remember the ridiculously
basic principle: you have the stuff you’re going to do, and the _reason_
you’re going to do it.

This is all it takes! All it takes to make a mockery of all this pointless
intellectualising and debate, and to press forward to what we’re _really_
trying do here:

Make big moves, and escape the competition.
